         BNSF DEMURRAGE BOOK 6004-C

         GENERAL AND SPECIFIC RAILCAR DEMURRAGE AND
                 PRIVATE CAR STORAGE RULES


                            APPLYING AT
               POINTS ON THE BNSF RAILWAY COMPANY
                 IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA


              ALSO APPLICABLE ON INTRASTATE TRAFFIC




Issued: June 3, 2025                       Effective: July 1, 2025
Contents


SECTION 1 - General Application ..................................................................................... 4
   Exceptions ..................................................................................................................... 4
   Method of Billing ............................................................................................................ 5
   Credit / Payment Terms ................................................................................................. 5
   Shipping/ Billing/ Forwarding Instructions ...................................................................... 5
   Notification ..................................................................................................................... 6
   Congestion Due to Rail Customer or Receiving Party ................................................... 6
   Pipeline Management .................................................................................................... 6
   Arbitration ...................................................................................................................... 6
   Dispute Handling ........................................................................................................... 6
   Weather, Labor Strikes, other Force Majeure claims ..................................................... 6
   Claims for adjustments to a demurrage charge due to Customer property, plant, or
   equipment outages will not be considered for demurrage billing adjustment where such
   outages are within Customer’s reasonable control. ....................................................... 7
   Unclaimed, Refused or Rejected Cars........................................................................... 7
SECTION 2 – General Railcar Demurrage........................................................................ 8
   Rail Controlled Equipment Held for Loading or Unloading............................................. 8
   Rail Controlled Refrigerated Equipment Held for Loading or Unloading ........................ 8
   Private Controlled Equipment Held for Loading or Unloading........................................ 9
   Equipment Held for Purposes other than Loading or Unloading .................................... 9
SECTION 3 - Additional Terms and Fees ....................................................................... 10
   Charges on Cars Containing Explosives or Hazardous Materials. .............................. 10
   Charges assessed under this sub-section cannot be offset by credits named in
   previous sections. Charges on Cars Containing Inhalation Hazard and Explosives. ... 10
   Charges on Heavy Duty Cars ...................................................................................... 11
   Change of Want Date for Wind Trains ......................................................................... 11
   Aviation (STCC 37299) Equipment Held for Purposes other than Loading or Unloading
   ..................................................................................................................................... 11
   Charges on Staged Cars in Excess of Shipper Agreement ......................................... 12
SECTION 4 – Shuttle and Unit Train Demurrage ............................................................ 12
   Shuttles Rules ............................................................................................................. 12
   Shuttles Held for Loading ............................................................................................ 13
   Shuttles Held for Unloading ......................................................................................... 13
   Unit Crude Oil Trains (STCC 1311110) Held for Loading and Unloading Calculation . 14
                                                                  2
   Other Unit Trains Held for Loading and Unloading Calculation (Non-Unit Crude Oil
   Trains) ......................................................................................................................... 14
   Other Unit Train Free Time .......................................................................................... 15
   Activities Other than Standard Train Operations ......................................................... 15
   Pre-Release for Unit Trains ......................................................................................... 16
   Trains Constructively Placed en Route to an Offline Location ..................................... 16
   Planned and Unplanned Shutdown ............................................................................. 16
SECTION 5 - Non-Chargeable Holidays ......................................................................... 17
SECTION 6 - Index of Terms .......................................................................................... 19




                                                                3
SECTION 1 - General Application
This Book, also referred to as the Tariff, specifies the rules governing demurrage, unit train / shuttle
demurrage, private car storage, hazardous charges and storage rules applying at all points on the
BNSF Railway Company (referred to as BNSF) network in the United States and Canada. It also
applies at points on connecting carriers where, through agreement, BNSF maintains demurrage
rules and charges. The rate in effect on the closing day event will be used to calculate charges, and
all rates and charges are stated in United States dollars.

The terms and conditions contained in this Tariff supersede and replace the former tariff (BNSF
Demurrage Book 6004-B) and its predecessors.

Demurrage is a charge that both compensates rail carriers for the expenses incurred when rail cars
are detained beyond a specified period (i.e., free time) for loading or unloading, and serves as a
penalty for undue car detention to encourage the efficient use of rail cars in the rail network. 49
C.F.R. §1333.1.

Any person receiving rail cars from BNSF for loading or unloading (defined herein as a receiving
party) who detains the cars beyond the period of free time set forth in this Book may be assessed
demurrage charges by BNSF. 49 C.F.R. §1333.3.

Except for unit trains and shuttles, BNSF calculates and bills demurrage fees using a debits and
credits system to calculate Chargeable Days. All days are chargeable, except specific days noted
in Section 5 – Non-Chargeable Holidays.

When a railcar is tendered by BNSF to a connecting carrier for delivery to the connecting carrier’s
receiving party and that party is unwilling or unable to accept the railcar (and as a consequence
railcar remains in BNSF’s custody and control), a demurrage charge will be assessed against that
receiving party in accordance with the provisions of this Book. If the receiving party does not
normally do business directly with BNSF, then the shipper will be responsible for all applicable
charges.

Empty and loaded railcars held short of the origin or waybilled destination are subject to governing
provisions and charges of this Book. Empty and loaded cars consigned or waybilled for delivery to
a connecting carrier or held on a connecting carrier per BNSF instructions or on railroad tracks
under constructive placement, are subject to governing provisions and charges of this Book.
Any specific provisions take precedence over general provisions, unless otherwise stated. See
Section 6 for explanations of terms commonly used in this Book.

 Exceptions

 Rules and charges contained in this Book apply to all railroad and private marked railcars held
 for or by rail customers with the following exceptions:

         •   Cars for loading or unloading of BNSF company material.
         •   Cars of refused or unclaimed freight to be sold by BNSF for the time held beyond
             legal requirements.
         •   Railroad owned cars, leased for storage of commodities, for intra-plant or intra-
             terminal switching service, while held on lessees’ tracks.
         •   Cars used for the purpose of testing loading and unloading procedures, new types of
             dunnage or new types of equipment as authorized by BNSF.

                                                   4
         •   All Bi-level and / or Tri-level equipment used in transportation of motor vehicles.
         •   Empty cars that are placed for loading but later rejected when properly reported to
             BNSF as unsuitable for loading.

Method of Billing

Charges are invoiced on a monthly basis for cars with a closing event within the billing cycle and
are calculated based on the provisions set forth in this Book. A closing event is defined as the event
in a car cycle that closes the cycle and results in the calculation of time and applicable charges.

If cars in a chargeable status do not have a closing event at the end of a billing cycle, then charges
will be carried forward to the following billing cycle for applicable charges until closing event.

Credit / Payment Terms

Charges that accrue per this Book are due and payable according to BNSF’s Credit Terms as
stated in BNSF Rules Book 6100 series. All payments must be paid in U.S. funds. Late payments
on undisputed bills (30 days or more after due date) will be subject to finance charge outlined in
BNSF Rule Book 6100, Section 3400-A (or any successor thereof).

BNSF reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to cancel credit and require a rail customer or
receiving party responsible for the payment of demurrage with a history of delinquency or non-
payment of charges, not in bona fide dispute, to provide assurance for payment of those charges.
Such “assurance” may include, but is not limited to, credit card payment upon incurrence of
charges, cash deposit with BNSF, letter of credit, surety bond or other suitable form of security. A
deposit or security will be equal to the average monthly demurrage bill as calculated over the past
six months.

It is within BNSF’s discretion to determine when issues of delinquency have been resolved and
when the rail customer or receiving party is no longer required to maintain an assurance. Should
service to the rail customer or receiving party no longer be required, security on deposit will be
released and returned upon satisfaction of all outstanding invoices.

Shipping/ Billing/ Forwarding Instructions

A bill of lading or other suitable instructions must be given to an authorized representative of BNSF
and contain all of the necessary information which allows for the immediate movement under either
line haul or switching services provided by BNSF. When "shipping instructions" are furnished
covering line haul movement, information must include the shipper, consignor, consignee,
receiving parties, destination, route, commodity description, whether prepaid or collect, and full
instructions relative to stop-offs.

Advice received by BNSF to move a car from a shipper's loading or storage track to BNSF yard or
hold track to be held for "shipping instructions," whether furnished by the party loading the car or
another party, or a bill of lading or an order consigning the car to an agent of BNSF which has no
beneficial interest in the lading, does not constitute "shipping instructions" or a release from
demurrage/storage charges. Cars held for shipping instructions (aka “hold for billing”) will result in
a charge of $420 per car plus applicable daily demurrage charge. (Please refer to BNSF Tariff
Rules Book 6100-B Item 8020.)

A bill of lading, or other suitable order, covering car(s) requiring clearance from all carriers in the
routing will not constitute "shipping instructions" until clearance is received from all carriers in the
routing.
                                                   5
Notification

Notification will be delivered to the receiving party or any party on the waybill who is registered to
receive notifications using the BNSF Customer Subscription Services on-line tool. Parties wishing
to receive notifications must sign up using the on-line tool.

Congestion Due to Rail Customer or Receiving Party

If a rail customer’s or receiving party’s excessive accumulation of railcars results in operational
congestion as determined by the carrier of the customer’s, receiving party’s and/or BNSF’s rail
tracks, BNSF may impose an embargo against the customer’s or receiving party’s receipt of
further railcars until congestion is eliminated.

Pipeline Management

Customers should not order more rail cars than their facility can hold. In order to assist customers
in managing their pipeline of incoming rail cars the BNSF “Rail Central” online tool is available to
manage, trace, and monitor rail car events. The Customer Dwell Management Tool (CDMT) is
also available to manage the incoming flow of rail cars and to minimize dwell and demurrage
charges. Customers needing access to these tools may register at www.bnsf.com or contact our
E-Business team by calling 888-428-2673 and using the verbal prompts. BNSF representatives
within the Demurrage team are also available to assist with these tools and to assist in strategy to
reduce or eliminate dwell and demurrage charges. The team can be reached via email at
DemurrageHelp@bnsf.com.

Arbitration

All disputes, claims, questions or controversies arising out of any charges assessed under the
provisions of this book in the transportation of Grain or Grain Products shall be resolved by binding
arbitration under the Arbitration Rules of the National Grain and Feed Association unless the parties
agree to some other arbitration procedure.

Dispute Handling

If, by error, demurrage or storage charges are improperly assessed, charges will be adjusted to
the amount that would have accrued but for such error. Questions or disputes relating to
charges arising under the terms of this Book may be initiated through the BNSF Customer Dwell
Management Tool (CDMT). Demurrage can be viewed as it accrues by using the CDMT tool and
can be disputed prior to monthly billing and invoicing. Disputes will not be accepted after 30
days past date of invoice.


Weather, Labor Strikes, other Force Majeure claims

Claims for adjustments to a demurrage charge due to Severe Weather, which include but are
not limited to flood, storm, earthquake, tornado or other climatic condition, will be evaluated for
relief provided that the facility production was stopped, shut down or otherwise unable to work
due to aforementioned conditions impacting the facility.

Claims for adjustments to demurrage charges due claiming Force Majeure does not excuse the
customer (Payor of Freight or receiver) from charges. The customer remains responsible for
paying published fees and costs associated with halting train movement, redirecting loaded and

                                                  6
empty trains, and resuming train operations, regardless of whether a force majeure condition
exists.

Claims for adjustments to a demurrage charge due to Strikes or Lockouts will be evaluated
provided that the facility production was stopped, shut down or otherwise unable to work due to
lack of railcars at the facility for at least three (3) days in duration.

Claims for adjustments to a demurrage charge due to Customer property, plant, or
equipment outages will not be considered for demurrage billing adjustment where
such outages are within Customer’s reasonable control.

Unclaimed, Refused or Rejected Cars

Loaded cars held for more than 15 days after notification of constructive placement, and refused
or rejected cars held more than 5 days will be subject to the following:

   •   On day 16 after shipper has been notified of loaded cars held, shipper will be contacted
       by BNSF for disposition of such cars. If disposition is not received from shipper within 5
       days of such contact, the cars may be:
          o Reverse routed back to shipper. Shipper will be responsible for all storage or
              other charges accrued at hold point and freight charges to return car to origin.
          o Considered abandoned and the contents may be sold via private sale or at
              auction without periodical publication. Proceeds from the sale will be used to
              satisfy charges due BNSF. Shipper will be responsible for any outstanding
              charges or costs not covered by the proceeds from the sale. BNSF reserves the
              right to bid at any sale.

   •   On day 6 after shipper has been notified of refused or rejected cars, shipper will be
       contacted by BNSF for disposition of such cars. If disposition is not received from
       shipper within 5 days of such contact, the cars may be:
           o Reverse routed back to shipper. Shipper will be responsible for all storage or
              other charges accrued at hold point and freight charges to return car to origin.
           o Considered abandoned and the contents may be sold via private sale or at
              auction without periodical publication. Proceeds from the sale will be used to
              satisfy charges due BNSF. Shipper will be responsible for any outstanding
              charges or costs not covered by the proceeds from the sale. BNSF reserves the
              right to bid at any sale.




                                                7
SECTION 2 – General Railcar Demurrage
Chargeable Days are calculated by subtracting Credit Days from Debit Days. At the end of each
month, Chargeable Days are calculated for each origin and destination facility and billed
accordingly.

Rail Controlled Equipment Held for Loading or Unloading

Debit Days are calculated by adding both Constructive Placement and Industry Days. Constructive
Placement Days occur when, upon arrival at a BNSF serving yard, cars are not ordered for
placement at the customer’s facility. Constructive Placement Days at a designated serving yard or
holding location selected at BNSF’s discretion begin from the first 12:01 a.m. after notification of
car arrival until ordered for placement at the customer’s facility. Industry Days occur when rail-
controlled cars are held at an origin or destination facility waiting to be released. Industry Days begin
from the first 12:01 a.m. after the later of Actual Placement or Want Date (for loading only), until
released.

Note: Unit/Shuttle Trains constructively placed en route will be allowed No free time.

Credit Days are days allowed to load or unload rail controlled equipment and are used to offset
Debit Days. For rail controlled cars, two Credit Days per car will be allowed for loading or unloading.
Credits can only be used to offset debits on the car under which they were earned. Any excess
credits on an individual car cannot be carried forward in the calculation of demurrage charges on
any other car. Excess credit days do not accrue for future months, carry over to other facilities, or
apply to any other demurrage provisions published elsewhere in this Book.

Extended Debit Days will be subject to an Extended Dwell Fee.

   •   Chargeable Days 1 through 3 are billed at $210 per day base rate.

   •   Chargeable Day 4 and above are billed at the $210 per day base rate plus an
       Extended Dwell Fee of $290 per day (a total amount of $500 per day).

 Day             Credit        Credit       Chargeable Chargeable Chargeable Chargeable
                 Day 1         Day 2        Day 1      Day 2      Day 3      Day 4+

 Demurrage       $0            $0           $210            $210            $210           $210 +
 Rate (First                                                                               $290
 two credit                                                                                (Extended
 days are                                                                                  Dwell Fee)
 free)                                                                                     = $500 total
                                                                                           rate



Rail Controlled Refrigerated Equipment Held for Loading or Unloading

Debit Days are calculated by adding both Constructive Placement and Industry Days. Constructive
Placement Days occur when, upon arrival at a BNSF serving yard, cars are not ordered for
placement at the customer’s facility. Constructive Placement Days begin from the first 12:01 a.m.
after notification of car arrival until ordered for placement at the customer’s facility. Industry Days
occur when rail-controlled cars are held at an origin or destination facility waiting to be released.
Industry Days begin from the first 12:01 a.m. after the later of Actual Placement or Want Date (for
                                                   8
loading only), until released.

Credit Days are days allowed to load or unload rail controlled equipment and are used to offset
Debit Days. For rail controlled refrigerated cars, one Credit Day per car will be allowed for loading
or unloading. Credits can only be used to offset debits on the car under which they were earned.
Any excess credits on an individual car cannot be carried forward in the calculation of demurrage
charges on any other car. Excess credit days do not accrue for future months, carry over to other
facilities, or apply to any other demurrage provisions published elsewhere in this Book.

   •       Chargeable Days 1 through 4 are billed at a $315 per day base rate.

   •       Chargeable Day 5 and above are billed at the $315 per day base rate plus an
           Extended Dwell Fee of $285 per day (a total amount of $600 per day).

 Day              Credit   Chargeable Chargeable Chargeable Chargeable Chargeable
                  Day 1    Day 1      Day 2      Day 3      Day 4      Day 5+

 Demurrage        $0       $315           315           315             315            $315 +
 Rate (First                                                                           $285
 credit day                                                                            (Extended
 is free)                                                                              Dwell Fee)
                                                                                       = $600 total
                                                                                       rate


Private Controlled Equipment Held for Loading or Unloading

Chargeable Days occur when, upon arrival at a BNSF serving yard, cars are not able to be ordered
for placement at the customer’s facility. Charges will begin at the first 12:01 a.m. after notification
of car arrival and will continue while held on railroad tracks until order for placement is received.

Extended dwell at a BNSF serving yard will be subject to an Extended Dwell Fee.

       •    Chargeable Days 1 through 5 are billed at a $210 per day base rate.

       •    Chargeable Day 6 and above are billed at the $210 base rate plus an Extended Dwell
            Fee of $290 per day (a total amount of $500 per day).

 Day              Chargeable      Chargeable    Chargeable    Chargeable    Chargeable    Chargeable
                  Day 1           Day 2         Day 3         Day 4         Day 5         Day 6+


 Demurrage $210                   $210          $210          $210          $210          $210 +
 Rate (No                                                                                 $290
 free credit                                                                              (Extended
 days)                                                                                    Dwell Fee)
                                                                                          = $500
                                                                                          total rate



Equipment Held for Purposes other than Loading or Unloading

Occasionally either rail controlled or private controlled cars are held on rail controlled tracks while
                                                   9
awaiting shipper’s instructions, held for overweight reduction, held for a diversion request or
consigned or waybilled for delivery to a connecting carrier.

Chargeable Days will begin at the first 12:01 a.m. after Constructive Placement and will continue
while held on railroad tracks, until request for disposition advice is received by BNSF or car is
ordered or refused. On cars received from a connecting carrier, Chargeable Days will be computed
from actual receipt by BNSF until date and time of disposition. Any excess credits on an individual
car cannot be carried forward in the calculation of demurrage on any other car. Excess credit days
do not accrue for future months, carry over to other facilities, or apply to any other demurrage
provisions published elsewhere in this book.

   •   Chargeable Days 1 through 5 are billed for all cars at $210 per day.

   •   Chargeable Day 6 and above are billed the $210 base rate plus an Extended Dwell
       Fee of $290 per day (a total amount of $500 per day).

 Day           Chargeable     Chargeable     Chargeable    Chargeable    Chargeable     Chargeable
               Day 1          Day 2          Day 3         Day 4         Day 5          Day 6+

 Demurrage $210               $210           $210          $210          $210           $210 +
 Rate (No                                                                               $290
 free credit                                                                            (Extended
 days)                                                                                  Dwell Fee)
                                                                                        = $500
                                                                                        total rate


SECTION 3 - Additional Terms and Fees
Charges on Cars Containing Explosives or Hazardous Materials.

Any loaded car containing Explosives or Hazardous Materials that is held on BNSF tracks,
including team tracks, is subject to an additional fee of $135 per day. The $135 per day charge will
be in addition to, and run concurrent with, the applicable per day demurrage charge.

Explosives are defined as Class A, B and C Explosives as named in Part 172, Commodity List,
and Tariff Bureau of Explosives (BOE) 6000-Series.

Hazardous Materials are defined as "Hazardous Wastes" and "Hazardous Substances" as named
in Hazardous Materials Regulations of the U. S. Department of Transportation in 40 C.F.R. §§260
through 263 and 49 C.F.R. §171.8 or any successors thereof.

Charges assessed under this sub-section cannot be offset by credits named in
previous sections. Charges on Cars Containing Inhalation Hazard and Explosives.

BNSF will not allow the loading or unloading of any commodities listed in BNSF Rule Book 6100B,
Section 1150 and 1158 (BNSF Rule Book 6100-series) on any team track owned or leased by
BNSF. In the event of a conflict in this sub-section and with other parts of this Book, this sub-
section will take precedence.

Any loaded car containing hazardous commodities designated as toxic/poison inhalation hazard,
radioactive material and explosives that is held on BNSF tracks, including team tracks, is subject
                                                 10
to a daily fee of $3,500. This fee will be in addition to, and run concurrent with, the applicable per
day demurrage charge. Charges will be assessed on cars constructively placed, and cars without
proper shipping instructions:

   •   Received from a connecting carrier.
   •   Pulled from private tracks.
   •   Held on BNSF tracks, moving from the United States to Canada, or from Canada to the
       United States or from Mexico to the United States, or from United States to Mexico that
       require entry and/or government inspection. Cars will be considered released at time
       clearance is obtained.


Charges will be computed from the first hour after notification of constructive placement and continue
until a closing event is received.

Total hours will be divided by 24 to determine number of demurrage days. Charges will be
assessed for each demurrage day, or fraction thereof, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
Charges assessed under this sub-section cannot be offset by credits named in previous sections.

In addition to the above charges, consignees and consignors will be liable for all Federal, State,
and Local penalties or fines which may be assessed for the holding of railroad-controlled cars on
railroad-controlled tracks when the receiving party has impeded delivery of the car. Consignees
and consignors will be responsible for any cost incurred by BNSF for providing protection or
surveillance of any commodities subject to this sub-section while held on BNSF property.

Charges on Heavy Duty Cars

Any heavy-duty car that is held on BNSF tracks, including team tracks, is subject to an additional
fee of $420 per day. The $420 per day charge will be in addition to, and run concurrent with, the
applicable per day demurrage charge.

Heavy Duty cars are defined as QTTX, KRL, LNAC, and ALT marked railcars with load limits in
excess of 200,000 lbs. and any commercial, rail-controlled railcar with a load limit in excess of
240,000 lbs.


Other Exceptions
   •   For Wind Cars (STCCs 3511206 – 3511209 & STCC 3533137), should power not stay
       with the train, five (5) credit days per car will be allowed for loading and four (4) Credit
       days per car will be allowed for unloading.
   •   Customers with a scheduled service plan of one (1) day per week will receive seven (7)
       total credit days to load or unload.
   •   Customers with a scheduled service plan of two (2) days per week will receive four (4)
       total credit days to load or unload.

Change of Want Date for Wind Trains

If the “Want Date” is changed for a wind train, demurrage charges are applicable immediately upon
spotting of the train at the temporary holding location. Demurrage charges, as outlined in Section 2,
will be computed from the time the train is spotted until its release to move to loading location.

Aviation (STCC 37299) Equipment Held for Purposes other than Loading or Unloading
                                                  11
Occasionally either rail controlled or private controlled cars transporting aviation equipment are
held on rail-controlled tracks while awaiting track capacity or other instructions at destination.
Chargeable Days will begin at the first 12:01 a.m. after Constructive Placement and will continue
while held on railroad tracks, until request for disposition advice is received by BNSF or car is
ordered. On cars received from a connecting carrier, Chargeable Days will be computed from
actual receipt by BNSF until date and time of disposition. Any excess credits on an individual car
cannot be carried forward in the calculation of demurrage on any other car.

Excess credit days do not accrue for future months, carry over to other facilities, or apply to any
other demurrage provisions published elsewhere in this book.

   •   Chargeable Days for all cars are billed at $525 per day. On cars received from a
       connecting carrier, Chargeable Days will be computed from actual receipt by BNSF
       until date and time of disposition. Any excess credits on an individual car cannot be
       carried forward in the calculation of demurrage on any other car.

 Charges on Staged Cars in Excess of Shipper Agreement

If shipper has an executed demurrage or staging agreement with BNSF that allows shipper to stage
a certain number of constructively placed cars on BNSF property at a contracted rate (the “subject
equipment”), and the subject equipment reaches 85% or more of the car count or spots allowed for
subject equipment, then shipper must engage in a discussion with BNSF about strategies to keep
its subject equipment within the agreed amounts. If for at least three consecutive days the subject
equipment has exceeded the allowed car count or spots, then BNSF may, at shipper’s expense,
immediately (1) reverse route the excess subject equipment back to its origin at applicable tariff or
contracted freight rate, (2) route excess subject equipment to the subject equipment’s AAR Circular
OT-57 designated storage location at applicable tariff or contracted freight rate, or (3) route the
excess subject equipment to a location that would, in BNSF’s reasonable discretion, allow BNSF to
maintain the fluidity of its network, subject to charges as Special Freight Train Service provided in
Item 3300 of BNSF Rules Book 6100-Series (or any successor thereof).

SECTION 4 – Shuttle and Unit Train Demurrage
This section applies to any party loading or unloading a train made up entirely of a single STCC
code or commodity as defined below that is to be placed and released as required as a whole unit,
and in which locomotive power remains with the train throughout loading/unloading unless
otherwise provided. Charges, times and events described apply to rail-controlled and private
equipment for all customers utilizing the defined rules and rates. Cars separated from a unit train
for any reason will be treated under the provisions in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Book as
determined by car ownership.

Shuttles Rules

Provisions regarding shuttle rules in this section are applicable to trains meeting the requirements of
the Efficiency Program as outlined in Items 13500 & 13501 of BNSF Rate Book 4022 Series
(Shuttles). Cars separated from a shuttle because of mechanical failure or other railroad issues
and arriving at destination on different day than the shuttle will be treated as a single car and
provided 5 credit days for unloading. Any excess days will be billed under Section 2- General Car
Demurrage at $210 per day.



                                                  12
Cars identified as overloaded, having a shifted load or otherwise required to be set out due to
Shipper or Shipper’s agent’s failure to conform to BNSF’s loading guidelines shall not be
considered as a Straggler car and will be subject to applicable charges.


Shuttles Held for Loading

Loading is complete when train is in conformity with BNSF loading and clearance rules, advice the
train is available for movement (Pre-Release submitted via BNSF web tools) has been received,
and the shipping instructions have been furnished. Failure of train to meet the 4-hour advance
completion time as declared will result in $100 per car charge.

Release:

Date and time that BNSF receives shipping instructions as required in BNSF Rate Book 4022 and
advise that train is available for movement.

Trains placed on industrial interchange tracks of a loader doing its own switching, including those
tracks of an industrial switch line acting as agent of loader, must also be returned to the industrial
interchange track for release.

Calculation:

 Constructive placement time will be computed from the time of constructive placement and
 continue until train is ordered to spot or if constructively placed en route, charges will continue
 until train departs hold point. Industry Time will be calculated from the later of Placement or Want
 Date and time until loading is completed as defined in this sub-section.

   •   Each train will be allowed 24 hours free time for loading at industry/customer facility.
   •   Constructive placement en route will be allowed No free time.
   •   Each hour or fraction of hour beyond free time will be charged at $1,050 per hour per train.

Shuttles Held for Unloading

Release:

Date and time that BNSF receives advice that train is empty and available for movement (Pre-
Release submitted via BNSF web tools). Trains placed on industrial interchange tracks of an
unloader doing its own switching, including those tracks of an industrial switch line acting as agent
of unloader, must be returned to the industrial interchange track for release in order to be
considered available for movement. Failure of train to meet the 4-hour advance completion time
as declared will result in $100 per car charge.

Calculation:

 Constructive placement time will be computed from the time of constructive placement and
 continue until train is ordered to spot or if constructively placed en route, charges will continue
 until train departs hold point. Industry Time will start when train is placed and continue until train is
 released.

   •   Each train will be allowed 24 hours free time for loading at industry/customer facility.
   •   Constructive placement en route will be allowed No free time.

                                                    13
   •       Each hour or fraction of hour beyond free time will be charged at $1,050 per hour per train.

Unit Crude Oil Trains (STCC 1311110) Held for Loading and Unloading Calculation

Calculation:

   •       Demurrage for constructive placement will be computed from the time of constructive
           placement (CP) and will remain on demurrage until the train departs the CP location.
   •       The total amount of CP time for each train will be added together and rounded to the nearest
           hour. Up to 6 hours of CP Free Time will be given to each applicable train. When the 6
           hours has expired and the train has not departed the CP location, demurrage fees will
           commence from the start of constructive placement time at a rate of $1,050 per hour per
           train.
   •       Trains constructively placed enroute to an offline location will be governed as set forth
           below in this Section 4.
   •       Industry Time will be calculated from actual placement time (AP) until the train is released
           for departure with proper billing in place (RI).
   •       The Industry Time for all trains released back to BNSF within a calendar month will be
           added together and divided by the number of trains released, resulting in an Average
           Industry Time, which will be rounded down to the last completed hour.
   •       If the Average Industry Time is greater than 24 hours, then demurrage charges will be
           assessed by multiplying $315 by each hour in excess of 24 hours, multiplied by the total
           number of trains released in the calendar month.
   •       If the Average Industry Time is less than 18 hours, then demurrage credits will be given by
           multiplying $315 by each hour less than 18 hours, multiplied by the total number of trains
           released in the calendar month.
   •       Accrued credits are to be used only to offset accrued constructive placement fees during
           the same calendar month. Should the net of credits and debits reach zero, then no bill will
           be assessed, and excess net credits are also zeroed out for that month.
   •       All days are chargeable or eligible for credits.
   •       Trains that have a ROP (release of power) are excluded in the factoring of demurrage and
           credit calculations

 Other Unit Trains Held for Loading and Unloading Calculation (Non-Unit Crude Oil
 Trains)

 Calculation:

 Demurrage for constructive placement will be computed from the time of constructive placement
 (CP), and will remain on demurrage until train departs hold location. Industry Time will be
 calculated from placement time (AP) until the train is released for departure with proper billing in
 place (RI).

       •    Free Time and hourly rate for each train are listed below, except for trains constructively
            placed en route which are subject to charges described within the Trains Constructively
            Placed en route to an Offline Destination later in this Section 4.
   •       For Other Unit Train Free Time, trains parked for constructive placement will be allowed
           No free time. Industry Time will be rounded up to the nearest hour, from which free time
           will be subtracted.
   •       All days are chargeable, except as indicated in the Other Unit Train Holiday Table.



                                                    14
Other Unit Train Free Time

 Commodity               STCC                                     Hourly Rate           Free Time
 Broken/Crushed Stone    14219                                    $1,050                30 Hours
 Dry Distilled Grains    20823* & 20859*                          $1,050                72 Hours
 Fertilizer              2812534, 2812567, 2818170,               $1,050                36 Hours
                         2819155, 2871235, 2871236,
                         2871238, 2871313, 2871315
 Gluten Feed             2042175                                  $1,050                72 Hours
 Canola Meal             2093922                                  $1,050                48 Hours
 Soybean Meal            2092314                                  $1,050                48 Hours
 Taconite                10-111,10-112,10-113                     $1,050                 4 Hours
 Grain Unit Trains       Containing 24 or more cars of 01137 $1,050                     48 Hours
 All Other Unit Trains * Varies                                   $1,050                24 Hours
    • * Note: for coal unit train details, refer to Tariff 6041-B




Drop and Hook Unit Train Operations

For unit trains where power from an inbound train is swapped to an outbound train, demurrage
charges related to Industry Time will be calculated based on 24 hours Free Time.

  •   Industry Time greater than 24 hours is chargeable at $1,050 per hour.
  •   Constructive Placement is chargeable at $1,050 per hour from the start of constructive
      placement until the train departs the hold location.



Activities Other than Standard Train Operations

Upon reasonable request by Shipper or Consignee, BNSF may remove locomotive power and
release crew from a Shipper/Consignee location. Under these circumstances, the requesting
party(ies) shall pay a release of power charge of $10,500 per occurrence, plus any miscellaneous
switching charges that may apply. The release of power charge covers the removal and return of
power for that train. A request to remove power may be considered reasonable when a designated
unit train is to be stored for greater than 72 hours and the request is made prior to train arrival, or
when more than 96 hours elapses without movement once the designated unit train is placed at
the Shipper/Consignee location. In the event BNSF determines a request to be unreasonable
under the terms stated above in this sub-section, demurrage charges will apply.

If a unit train is to be stored greater than 72 hours and a Shipper or Consignee does not request
power to be removed, BNSF may choose to remove power and a $10,500 release of power charge
may apply in addition to the dwell accumulated through the time the power is released.

Upon reasonable request by Shipper or Consignee, BNSF will deliver a Unit Train to or pick-up a
Unit Train from a maintenance facility, storage track, interchange point or other location on the
route-of-movement. If release of locomotive power is required, the requesting party(ies) shall pay
BNSF a release of power charge of $10,500 per occurrence, plus any miscellaneous switching
charges assessed by BNSF and any other carrier or entity that may apply.

                                                  15
 If BNSF is required to separate the loaded or empty train set into blocks of cars or singles,
 additional switch fees will apply per BNSF Switching Book 8005-D.

 If BNSF arrives at a maintenance facility, storage track, interchange or other location on the route-
 of-movement to drop-off or pick-up a Unit Train and the Unit Train is not available for any reason,
 an additional charge of $10,500 per occurrence shall apply.

 If release of locomotive power occurs, all rail-controlled cars on industry tracks and private cars
 on rail-controlled tracks will be assessed applicable charges per Sections 1 or 2 of this Book until
 power is restored, in addition to the $10,500 removal of power fee.

 If a Unit Train is held on rail-controlled tracks for private railcar repair, Shipper or Consignee will
 be assessed a charge of $1,050 per hour to be calculated starting from the first hour the train is
 held for repair.

 These provisions are intended for the non-routine use by Shippers in response to extraordinary
 circumstances and may not be used to circumvent otherwise applicable charges that may apply,
 including charges resulting from the expiration of Loading or Unloading Free Time.

 Pre-Release for Unit Trains

 Shipper, Shipper’s agent or Receiving Party shall pre-release Unit Trains using the Unit Train Pre-
 Release web feature at www.bnsf.com and following the Pre-Release web instructions. The Pre-
 Release feature allows parties to notify BNSF of an estimated time when the Unit Train will be
 made available, loaded or unloaded.

If pre-release does not occur, train is considered actually placed and assessed charges as
applicable until released.

 Trains Constructively Placed en Route to an Offline Location

 Any loaded or empty train destined to an offline station held at, or short of, interchange point will
 be charged at $1,050 per hour. Demurrage will be computed from the time of constructive
 placement and continue until train departs hold point. Each train constructively placed en route
 will be allowed no free time.

 All applicable charges will be due from the receiving party unwilling or unable to accept delivery.
 If the receiving party does not normally do business directly with BNSF, then the shipper will be
 responsible for all applicable charges.

 Planned and Unplanned Shutdown

 Planned shutdown information for Energy customers must be communicated in writing to the
 BNSF Energy Desk at OPRDLenergydeskmgrs@BNSF.com and DemurrageHelp@BNSF.com.

 Any outages impacting private equipment should also contact MKTDLPrivatecars@BNSF.com.

 In the event of an unplanned shutdown, customer is responsible for demurrage charges for the
 first 24-hour period after the load/unload window. If a situation calls for an extended shutdown,
 then the customer must contact BNSF during the load/unload window for impact planning. An
 email must be sent within 24 hours of the occurrence including date, time and the BNSF
 individual notified.
                                                   16
SECTION 5 - Non-Chargeable Holidays
The following days will be considered as Non-Chargeable Days for both rail controlled and private
controlled equipment for Manifest Trains.


 US Holiday                    Date                 Description
 New Year’s Day                January 1
 Martin Luther King Day        Varies               3rd Monday in January
 Presidents’ Day               Varies               3rd Monday in February
 Good Friday                   Varies               Friday before Easter
 Easter Sunday                 Varies
 Memorial Day                  Varies               Last Monday in May
 Independence Day              July 4
 Labor Day                     Varies               1st Monday in September
 Thanksgiving Day              Varies               4th Thursday in November
 Day after Thanksgiving        Varies
 Christmas Eve                 December 24
 Christmas Day                 December 25
 New Year’s Eve                December 31


 Canadian Holiday              Date                 Description
 New Year’s Day                January 1
 Good Friday                   Varies               Friday before Easter
 Easter Sunday                 Varies
 Victoria Day                  Varies               Monday preceding May 25
 Canada Day                    July 1
 Civic Holiday                 Varies               1st Monday in August
 Labor Day                     Varies               1st Monday in September
 Thanksgiving Day              Varies               2nd Monday in October
 Remembrance Day               November 11
 Christmas Eve                 December 24
 Christmas Day                 December 25
 Boxing Day                    December 26


Shuttle Holiday Table: Applicable only to Ag Shuttles within Section 4

                                            Start              Start     End              End
 Stations              Day
                                            Date               Time      Date             Time
 Loading/Unloading     New Year’s           December 31        0001      January 2        0600
 Loading/Unloading     Thanksgiving         Wednesday          1800      Friday           0600
 Loading/Unloading     Christmas            December 24        0600      December 26      0600
 Portland, OR          Each Month           2nd Wednesday      1500      2nd Wednesday    2400
 Seattle, WA           Each Month           2nd Thursday       1500      2nd Thursday     2400
 Tacoma, WA            Each Month           2nd Thursday       1500      2nd Thursday     2400
 Vancouver, WA         Each Month           2nd Wednesday      1500      2nd Wednesday    2400
 Longview, WA          Each Month           2nd Wednesday      1500      2nd Wednesday    2400
 Kalama, WA            Each Month           2nd Wednesday      1500      2nd Wednesday    2400

                                               17
  •   Train Order Want Date: Date specified by customer or BNSF AG Operations or actual
      placement of train for loading.
  •   Train Order Want Time: Time is specified as constructive placement time or the time
      specified by BNSF AG Operations.

Other Unit Train Holiday Table: Applicable only to Unit trains within Section 4 (Not applicable to
Unit Crude Oil Trains)

                                              Start             Start   End                End
 Stations              Day
                                              Date              Time    Date               Time
 Loading/Unloading     New Year’s             December 31       0600    January 2          0600
 Loading/Unloading     Easter Sunday          Saturday prior    1800    Monday after       0600
 Loading/Unloading     Independence Day       July 4            0700    July 5             0700
 Loading/Unloading     Thanksgiving           Wednesday         1800    Friday             0600
 Loading/Unloading     Christmas              December 24       0600    December 26        0600




                                                18
SECTION 6 - Index of Terms
Actual Placement: When a car is placed in an accessible position for loading or unloading or at a
point designated by the consignor, consignee or party loading or unloading the car or as
reasonably designated as an accessible placement location by the railroad.

Assigned Cars: The assignment of cars to a given shipper at a specific location as defined in Car
Service Rule 16 and Car Hire Rule 22 as published in the Official Railway Equipment Register.

Billing Cycle Record: A record for private car that is in constructive placement status awaiting
disposition or order for placement at midnight on the last day of each billing cycle resulting in the
computation of time and applicable charges.

BNSF: BNSF Railway Company.

Chargeable Day(s): The difference between the debits applied to a car minus any earned or
allowed credits. Chargeable days multiplied by the applicable daily demurrage rate determines
the chargeable amount.

Debit Day(s): The days a car sits waiting to be placed at a customer facility or sitting a customer’s
facility.

Credit Day (s): The amount of free days allowed to load or unload a rail car. Credit Days are used
to offset Debit Days when calculating Chargeable Days.

Closing Event: The event in a car cycle that closes the cycle and results in computation of time
and applicable charges.

Commodity: The contents in the equipment (loaded or empty) described on the shipping
instructions. The actual commodity corresponds to an associated STCC (See STTC).

Consignee: The party designated on the bill of lading as the consignee or receiver. For purposes
of this Tariff, the Consignee also includes the person or entity that receives the loaded railcars for
unloading whether or not listed on the bill of lading as the consignee or receiver.

Consignor: The party designated on the bill of lading as the consignor or shipper. For purposes
of this Tariff, the Consignor also includes the person or entity that receives the empty railcars for
loading whether or not listed on the bill of lading as the consignor or shipper.

Constructive Placement: When a car cannot be actually placed or delivered because of any
condition attributable to the consignee, consignor, loader or unloader, such car will be held by
BNSF short of actual placement and notice will be sent or given to the party entitled to receive
notification that the car is held awaiting disposition instructions. Such cars which have been placed
by BNSF on private or other than team tracks, including lead tracks serving the loader or unloader,
will be considered constructively placed without notice.

Constructive Placement Time: The time from constructive placement notice until a car is ordered
for placement.

Disposition: Information, including shipping instructions and/or release, which allows the railroad
to either tender or release the car.


                                                 19
Empty Release Information: Advice by unloader or consignee given to an authorized
representative of BNSF that a car is partially or completely unloaded and available to BNSF.

Extended Use Fee: A charge for a mechanical device used to control temperatures in refrigerated
rail cars. EUF Day is a twenty-four (24) hour period or fraction thereof. The daily fee is in addition
to standard demurrage charges.

Free Time: Duration from the time that Actual Placement occurs that a receiving party is granted
to load or unload the Unit Train. Demurrage charges begin to accrue when the allowed Free Hours
for the identified commodity have been exceeded and a Release has not been communicated to
BNSF though the required process.

Shipping Instructions: A bill of lading or other suitable instructions given to an authorized
representative of BNSF that contains all of the necessary information which allows for the
immediate movement under either line haul or switching services provided by BNSF.

Initial Placement: The actual placement, subsequent to arrival or interchange receipt at
destination, of a private car on private tracks.

Industrial Interchange Track: Designated delivery or receipt track or tracks for the exchange of
cars between carrier and customer performing their own switching including industrial switch line
acting as agent for Customer.

Industry Time: The time from actual placement or notification of placement to team tracks until
release and receipt of shipping instructions, if applicable. The time from interchange receipt of a
loaded car or a loaded private car released and held on railroad controlled tracks until shipping
instructions are received.

Leased Track: A track leased to a customer through a written lease agreement and is considered
the same as a private track for demurrage purposes.

Loader: Party physically loading the car.

Loading: The loading of a car, unit train or shuttle in conformity with BNSF loading and clearance
rules, advice that the equipment is available for movement and the furnishing of shipping
instructions.

Loading Facility: Equipment necessary to load the desired commodity at origin to the Unit Train
and any support facilities used in the handling of the desired commodity including rail trackage,
storage facilities, load-out facilities and necessary systems used for moving the commodity from
the storage and all intermediate phases to the load-out facility.

LOGS: Loading Origin Guarantee Service is a guaranteed placement program.

LUX Code: A code used by BNSF to identify transactions and sub-transactions related to
demurrage.

Non-Credit Customer: Any customer that has not established credit under the BNSF credit policy
guidelines.

Order in Customer: A customer who, by prior arrangement, has notified BNSF that cars shall not
be placed, or considered to be placed, for loading or unloading, until BNSF has received an order

                                                 20
for placement from said customer. Until such order for placement is received, cars will be on
constructive placement.

Order in Time: In order for a car on constructive placement to be spotted at a customer's facility,
the party entitled to receive the car must order the car for placement. This order in request must
be made in accordance with the instructions provided by BNSF on the Constructive Placement
Notice. The date and time that BNSF receives the order for placement will be considered the
Order In Time and this time will be made part of that car's demurrage record, except when BNSF
receives a request with a future order date, the request must include a date and time of the future
order, and this date and time will be made part of that car’s demurrage record.

Pre-Release: A notification given to the carrier by a customer advising train will be ready for
movement in a set amount of time. A pre-release does not constitute a release for demurrage
purposes.

Private Car: A car which is not a railroad owned or controlled car.

Private Track: Any track which is not owned or leased by a railroad.

Public Delivery Track: Any track for use by the general public for loading and unloading (i.e. Team
Track).

Rail Equipment: Used in the transportation of goods between points on a rail network, including,
but not limited to, locomotives and “Car(s)” which is equipment under ownership or control of
BNSF, another carrier, or leased/owned by a private party.

Railroad-Controlled Car: A car owned or controlled by a railroad including those bearing other
than railroad reporting marks provided to a railroad directly by car companies or others for use by
a railroad in serving any of its customers.

Railroad-Controlled Tracks: Any track designated by BNSF not defined as a Leased Track or
Private Track.

Receiving Party: Any entity or person that receives or is supposed to receive rail cars from BNSF
or on behalf of BNSF for loading or unloading including, but not limited to, shipper, consignor,
consignee, operating customer, transloader, warehousemen, business park operators, industrial
park operators, logistics park operators, agents and third party logistics providers.

Refused Car: A car refused without being loaded or unloaded.

Release: Except as otherwise provided in this Book, the term “release” means the notification
received from loader or unloader that loading or unloading of a car has been completed and the
car is available for movement and shipping instructions have been received.

Reshipped/Reshipment: The entire original shipment is forwarded in the same car to another
destination.

Shipper: Person, party or legal entity shipping or arranging for the shipment of freight from origin,
usually the person sending the shipping instructions (see Consignor). For purposes of this Tariff,
the Shipper also includes the person or entity that receives the empty railcars for loading.

Shuttles: A train loaded or unloaded by a customer under special provision of Section 4 of this
Book.
                                                 21
Spot on Arrival: BNSF, without notification, will place cars for loading or unloading immediately
upon their availability for placement.

Spot on Arrival Customer: Cars for loading or unloading are ordered to the facility if capacity is
available. If constructive placement of a car is necessary, the car will not be placed for loading or
unloading until BNSF has received an order for placement. If a customer has elected automatic
ordering of constructively placed cars, as cars are released and spotting capacity is made
available, equipment will be ordered in.

Storage Day: A twenty-four (24) hour period or fraction thereof.

Straggler: Cars that were loaded or unloaded as part of a Shuttle but were removed from the
Shuttle while en route to the identified loading or unloading facility by BNSF due to being identified
as “bad order”. Cars removed from a Shuttle due to being overloaded, having a shifted load, or
other reason attributed to the Shipper shall not be identified as a Straggler.

Team Track: Any track designated by BNSF for use by the general public for loading and
unloading (i.e. Public Delivery Track). Team Tracks are for limited use with no more than 52 cars
per year to be shipped or received.

Time: Local time applicable.

Tendered for Delivery: All cars made available to a customer that have been constructively placed
or ordered for placement on the same day.

Unit Train: Any assemblage of like cars with BNSF-supplied locomotives and end-of-train devices
necessary for the movement of a desired commodity of a particular STCC code.

Unloader: Party physically unloading a car.

Unloaded/Unloading: The complete or partial unloading of a car, unit train or shuttle and advice
the equipment is available for movement and the furnishing of shipping instructions when
required.

Unloading Facility: Equipment necessary to unload the desired commodity at the destination from
the Unit Train, and all support facilities necessary to the unloading of the desired commodity to a
storage location, including rail trackage, unloading facilities and necessary systems used for
moving the commodity from the unloading facility.

Want Date: The date for which customer requested Rail-Controlled car for loading.




                                                 22
